---
title: "whoami"
---

[Who Am I?](https://ss64.com/bash/whoami.html)

```bash
$ whoami
marko
```

I'm Marko Vejnovic, a high school student from [Bosnia &
Herzegovina](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bosnia_and_Herzegovina). I'm
currently studying in [UWC Changshu China](http://www.uwcchina.org/en). 

![Me doing some electronics](/img/electronics.jpg)

I can't tell you who I am (I'd like to know that myself, hah), but I can tell
you a bit about myself.

First and foremost in my life came music. I grew up with music. Coming from a
place where music is objectively unartistic and uninspired, I was quite lucky
that my father listened to good music. From
[Tchaikovsky](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyotr_Ilyich_Tchaikovsky) to
[Rammstein](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rammstein), my father listened to a
variety of musical genres. He showed me what good music was - rock, the blues,
country, you name it, he showed it to me. As time would pass, I would develop
my own taste, and start exploring music myself - jazz, country, old-school
blues, metal.

For some reason, I was also in love with science, be it the popsci shows that
I'd watch on the _Discovery channel_, or _Mythbusters_ (well, before the show
devolved into explosions alone).

Finally, I grew up around computers. I've never been popular in school and I've
never had a bunch of friends. Since schoolwork was lax back then, and since I
didn't go out too much, except with the few friends that I had, I had a lot of
spare time. I got to spend all of that time learning and improving my computer
skills.

These all interests that I had from a very young age would be the defining
characteristics of who I am today.

Around grade 8, I started fiddling around with electronics. You see, I realized
how electronics was connected to all of my interests - physics, computers,
music (musical devices), and I just fell in love with how both scientific and
artesian it all felt. In the beginning, I was making simple circuits - a light
circuit, a dimming circuit, an RC circuit, etc... I wound that there was
something special in making these silly circuits, something special in
creation. I was truly happy when I made something of my own. At such a young
age, I was hindered by my lack of mathematical knowledge though, and could not
dedicate myself to understanding analog circuits. I worked with the Arduino,
learning about PID systems, motor control, load balancing circuits, H-bridges,
stepper motors, etc.

This is where my passion for music comes in. I'll never be a musician. I just
didn't practice enough when I should have, I just didn't have the patience to
do it. The train is long gone now. But, when I realized how big of a role
electronics played in music, I realized that that was my _calling_. I wanted to
be an electronics engineer. Even if I don't work in the sphere of audio
electronics (which I also do realize is difficult to work in), I will be happy
working the sphere electrical engineering in general. I just find it to be,
like music, in essence, artistic and scientific at the same time.

Well, around grade 8, I also started learning programming. It's actually a
funny story how it all began. Since I was playing _World of Warcraft_ (on
private servers of course, for standards back home, a monthly payment for a
video game is extremely frowned upon) at the time, I decided I wanted to try
and automate the task of playing the game (silly, isn't it). Well, not knowing
how to do actual proper programming, I was looking for online tools, and well,
I found a tool called _PQR_. Funily enough, _PQR_ required you to write your
own scripts in [LUA](https://www.lua.org/). So I learned LUA - and I did make
my own scripts. Unsurprisingly, LUA was the language that opened the Pandora's
box - I started learning more and more and more. Today, I'd say I'm well versed
in _C_, _C#_, _Java_, _PHP_, _HTML_, _CSS_, _Javascript_, _Typescript_ (with
_React_ and _Angular_ being the main _UI_ frameworks I use), _LUA_, _python_
and probably a few others I can't think of right now. I'm somewhat versed in
_C++_, but if you asked me something, I probably wouldn't answer you very
easily without the aid of _StackOverflow_. I'm not familiar with the
_functional paradigm_ sadly, mostly due to the fact that I never really needed
to learn it to solve a certain problem.

Of course, like with anybody else, there are more sides to me than just these -
I enjoy philosophy, history, visual art, sports, and, without lying - going to
bars. And even these don't cut it.
