---
title: "INOST 2014"
date: 2014-05-14T00:00:00+02:00
draft: false
---

_INOST_ is an _exhibition of ideas, innovations and creations_, where people
from multiple countries gather to showcase their innovative or creative
products.

Being a curious kid, my middle school physics teacher told me of this fair and
how I could go. I did want to build something, but I wasn't sure what exactly I
wanted to make.

I came back home, talked to my dad and he told me that we would think about it.
A few days later, I came back from school and complained how our school doesn't
have the required materials it needs for physics experiments. My father then
told me to solve the problem! At first I was confused: "How would you solve such
a big problem for poor schools?"

Some time later, I had to go to the optometrist, and there I saw an optometric
lens kit:

![Optometric Lens
Kit](http://www.optometrystudents.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/lens-rack-optometry.jpg)

Now, I realized that all of these little lenses are important and expensive, so
optometrists can't necessarily buy multiple kits for their multiple optometry
exam rooms, so they just buy one and carry them around.

This inspired my kid brain to apply a similar solution to the world of
middle-school physics lab experiment kits. I realized that I needed to create a
small kit of robust electrical experiments that could be carried around the
school and shared between multiple teachers. The experiments would have to be
from multiple areas of physics.

I decided I would make a robust portable coffer of physics experiments which
would be available for a very minimal price.

Well, being the fourteen-year-old kid that I was, as ambitious as I was, I did
not really have the capabilities to do what I wanted to do. I asked for help
from my father. After a bit of construction, together we made the coffer and
some experiments in it: lens experiments, pulley experiments, torque
experiments, basic electrical circuit experiments, friction experiments etc.

I went to the science fair with this coffer.

![Coffer](/img/inost2014.jpg)

The fair was tiring - three days of standing and presenting all day, but at the
end of the day, I'd say it was a fun experience to meet new people and interact
with other innovators.

At the fair, I was awarded the gold medal for my project.
