---
title: "Programming Club of UWC Changshu China"
date: 2017-01-01T00:00:00+02:00
draft: false
---

In _UWC Changshu_, I heard that people were interested in programming. Rumor
even had it that people were well versed in software development.

So I decided I wanted to collaborate with other people to work on some
projects. I sent out a form and a staggering 60 people replied.

It's time for the first class and no more than 10 people show up.

Since the people who came were beginners, I decided it was better to teach them
programming from zero, so we agreed it would be best if they learned the _C_
programming language.

Well, since _C_ is as low level as it is, and considering my pupils were quite
new to everything, we ran into issues. The problem was that we could not have
many classes per week, overall interest was low, and the number of people
actively participating kept dropping until it reached 3.

Anyways, I kept teaching, they kept learning for a whole year, but at the end
of the day, I think that an overall low interest atmosphere, combined with the
limited time, completely negated any idea of actual learning.

I've learned that to learn a language as rudimentary as _C_, you need to have a
very high interest, like I did. The issue of the class was that what I thought
the students wanted was not what they actually wanted. You see, they were
expecting to learn how to make games, animations, sites, etc. whereas I wanted
to learn them proper, step-by-step programming. I wanted to give them
understanding on why some things were the way they were (like why the garbage
collector exists), but, unknown to me at the time, they did not want that.

If anything, it's been a learning experience for me - I've learned how to teach
better and how to listen to my students, not only when it comes to what they
don't understand, but also when it comes to getting the subtle hints of what
they wish to learn.
